Migrate Async Clipboard article (#1624)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/image-support-for-async-clipboard/index.md

---
title: Image support for the async clipboard API
subhead: The Asynchronous Clipboard API now handles some images, in addition to text.
authors:
  - thomassteiner
description: Chrome 76 adds expands the functionality of the Async Clipboard API to add support for png images. Copying and pasting images to the clipboard has never been easier.
date: 2019-07-03
updated: 2019-10-08
tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - capabilities
  - chrome76
  - cutandcopy
  - execcommand
  - input
  - clipboard
hero: hero.jpg
alt: Clipboard with shopping list
draft: true
---

Chrome 66 added support for the
[text portion](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/03/clipboardapi)

> of the [Asynchronous Clipboard API](https://w3c.github.io/clipboard-apis/#async-clipboard-api).

Reviewer: I think we usually prefer to link to MDN when we mention an API. I realize [the MDN page for Clipboard](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Clipboard_API) is a little short tho (you have to click on the Clipboard interface to see the methods). @kaycebasques do you have an opinion here?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of the [Asynchronous Clipboard API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Clipboard_API).
```
I think MDN aligns more closely with our reader's goals. I understand that this is a capabilities post, and the readers might be more bleeding-edge and therefore might be interested in a spec, but I think we should optimize for the typical web developer who just heard about a cool API and wants to build stuff with it. For that typical reader MDN is the better destination.

I updated the checklist to mention this: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/commit/ae7e7d0a70bf22540d10266c2280d5fd70ba8326

    console.error('Failed to read clipboard contents: ', err);
  }
}
```

### Handling paste events

Paste events can be handled by listening for the (surprise) `paste` event.
Note that you need to call `preventDefault()` in order to modify the
to-be-pasted data, like for example, convert it to uppercase before pasting.
It works nicely with the new asynchronous methods for reading clipboard text:

```js
document.addEventListener('paste', async (e) => {
  e.preventDefault();
  try {
    const text = await navigator.clipboard.readText();
    text = text.toUpperCase();
    console.log('Pasted UPPERCASE text: ', text);
  } catch (err) {
    console.error('Failed to read clipboard contents: ', err);
  }
});
```

### Security and permissions {: #security-permission }

The `navigator.clipboard` property is only supported for pages served over
HTTPS, and to help prevent abuse, clipboard access is only allowed when a page
is the active tab. Pages in active tabs can write to the clipboard without
requesting permission, but reading from the clipboard always requires
permission.

When the Asynchronous Clipboard API was introduced,
two new permissions for copy and paste were added to the

>  [Permissions API](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2015/04/permissions-api-for-the-web):

Reviewer: Should we switch this to an MDN link? https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Permissions_API

@kaycebasques ?

Reviewer 2: Yes

---
title: Image support for the async clipboard API
subhead: Starting in Chrome 76, the Asynchronous Clipboard API now handles some images, in addition to text.
authors:
  - thomassteiner
description: Chrome 76 adds expands the functionality of the Async Clipboard API to add support for png images. Copying and pasting images to the clipboard has never been easier.
date: 2019-07-03
updated: 2019-10-08
tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - capabilities
  - chrome76
  - cutandcopy
  - execcommand
  - input
  - clipboard
hero: hero.jpg

> alt: Clipboard with shopping list

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
alt: Clipboard with shopping list
draft: true
```

Adding `draft: true` so we can control when the post gets published

---

> Chrome 66, added support for the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Chrome 66 added support for the
```

[text portion](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/03/clipboardapi)
of the [Asynchronous Clipboard API](https://w3c.github.io/clipboard-apis/#async-clipboard-api).

> Chrome 76 has added support for images makes it easy to programmatically

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Chrome 76's added support for images makes it easy to programmatically
```

Author: @kaycebasques - can you give me context on this? To me it doesn't sound quite grammatically correct.

Reviewer: I think Kayce's edit makes sense:

"Chrome 76's added support for images makes it easy to programmatically copy and paste PNG images."

Reviewer 2: The original sentence had trouble grammar-ing (problem in bold) so I just edited it to make it grammar-ful

> Chrome 76 **has** added support for images **makes** it easy to programmatically...

Reviewer 3: Option 3: Chrome 76 supports images for easily copying and pasting PNG images.

Fewer words too.

Author: Went with option 4.

> copy and paste **png** images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
copy and paste **PNG** images.
```

DGGSG says to capitalize: https://developers.google.com/style/filenames

{% Aside 'caution' %}

>   At the time of writing, only png files are supported. Support for other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  At the time of writing, only PNG files are supported. Support for other
```
DGGSG says to capitalize: https://developers.google.com/style/filenames

  images and file formats will be added in the future.
{% endAside %}

Before we dive in, let's take a brief look at how the Asynchronous Clipboard
API works. If you remember the details, skip ahead to the [image section](#images).

## Recap of the Asynchronous Clipboard API {: #recap }

Before describing image support, I want to review how the Asynchronous Clipboard
API works. Feel free to [skip ahead](#images) if you're already comfortable

> using the API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This paragraph repeats what the paragraph on line 32 just said

P.S. I'm not sure if the suggested edit will apply properly for all 3 lines. I've never tried it before.

copied successfully. For example:

```js
async function copyPageURL() {
  try {
    await navigator.clipboard.writeText(location.href);
    console.log('Page URL copied to clipboard');
  } catch (err) {
    console.error('Failed to copy: ', err);
  }
}
```

### Paste: reading text from the clipboard {: #reading-text }

Much like copy, text can be read from the clipboard by calling
`navigator.clipboard.readText()` and waiting for the returned promise to
resolve with the text:

```js
async function getClipboardText() {
  try {
    const text = await navigator.clipboard.readText();
    console.log('Clipboard contents: ', text);
  } catch (err) {
    console.error('Failed to read clipboard contents: ', err);
  }
}
```

### Handling paste events

Paste events can be handled by listening for the (surprise) `paste` event.
Note that you need to call `preventDefault()` in order to modify the
to-be-pasted data, like for example, convert it to uppercase before pasting.
It works nicely with the new asynchronous methods for reading clipboard text:

```js
document.addEventListener('paste', async (e) => {
  e.preventDefault();
  try {
    const text = await navigator.clipboard.readText();

>     text = text.toUpperCase();

Reviewer 2: Redefining a const?

Reviewer 3: Easier to read than navigator.clipboard.readText().toUpperCase(). 

It's also pretty typical. Massaging strings in steps is something you often do in text manipulation contexts.

Author: Fixed.

 [Permissions API](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2015/04/permissions-api-for-the-web):

* The `clipboard-write` permission is granted automatically to pages when they
  are in the active tab.
* The `clipboard-read` permission must be requested, which you can do by
  trying to read data from the clipboard.

```js
const queryOpts = { name: 'clipboard-read' };
const permissionStatus = await navigator.permissions.query(queryOpts);
// Will be 'granted', 'denied' or 'prompt':
console.log(permissionStatus.state);

// Listen for changes to the permission state
permissionStatus.onchange = () => {
  console.log(permissionStatus.state);
};
```

## Images in the Asynchronous Clipboard API {: #images }

### Copy: writing an image to the clipboard {: #copy-image }

The new `navigator.clipboard.write()` method can be used for copying images
to the clipboard. Like [`writeText()`](#copy-text), it is asynchronous, and
Promise-based. Actually, `writeText()` is just a convenience method for the
generic `write()` method.

To write an image to the clipboard, you need the image as a [`Blob`][blob].
One way to do this is by requesting the image from an server by calling

> `fetch()` (or `XMLHTTPReuest()`). The `response` object returned by `fetch()`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`fetch()` (or `XMLHTTPRequest()`). The `response` object returned by `fetch()`
```

has a [`blob()` method][blob-method] and `XMLHTTPRequest()` let's you set
`"blob"` as the [`responseType`][blob-response-type].

Calling the server may not be desireable or possible for a variety of reasons.
Fortunately, you can also write the image to a canvas, then call
[`HTMLCanvasElement.toBlob()`][to-blob].

Next, pass an array of `ClipboardItem` objects as a parameter to the `write()`
method. Currently you can only pass one image at a time, but we plan to add
support for multiple images in the future.

The `ClipboardItem` takes an object with the MIME type of the image as the key,
and the actual blob as the value. The sample code below shows a future-proof way
to do this by using the [`Object.defineProperty()`][object-define-prop] method.

> The MIME used as the key is retrieved from `blob.type`. This approach ensures

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The MIME type used as the key is retrieved from `blob.type`. This approach ensures
```

that your code will be ready for future image types as well as other MIME types
that may be supported in the future.

```js
try {
  const imgURL = '/images/generic/file.png';
  const data = await fetch(imgURL);
  const blob = await data.blob();
  await navigator.clipboard.write([
    new ClipboardItem(Object.defineProperty({}, blob.type, {
      value: blob,
      enumerable: true
    }))
  ]);
  console.log('Image copied.');
} catch(e) {
  console.error(e, e.message);
}
```

### Paste: reading an image from the clipboard {: #paste-image }

The `navigator.clipboard.read()` method, which reads data from the clipboard, is
also asynchronous, and Promise-based.

To read an image from the clipboard, obtain a list of `ClipboardItem` objects,
then iterate over them. Since everything is asynchronous, use the

> [`for ... of`][for-of] iterator, since it handles async/await code nicely.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`for...of`][for-of] iterator, since it handles async/await code nicely.
```
Removing the spaces to match the syntax in the MDN doc that's linked here

Each `ClipboardItem` can hold its contents in different types, so you'll

> need to iterate over the list of types, again using a `for ... of` loop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
need to iterate over the list of types, again using a `for...of` loop.
```

Just matching the syntax on MDN as mentioned above

in favor of your own logic, then use the code above to read the contents from
the clipboard, and handle it in whatever way your app needs.

```js
document.addEventListener('paste', async (e) => {
  e.preventDefault();
  getClipboardContents();
});
```

### Custom copy handler {: #custom-copy-handler }

The [`copy` event][copy-event] includes a [`clipboardData`][clipboard-data]
property with the items already in the right format, eliminating the need to
manually create a blob. As before, don't forget to call `preventDefault()`.

```js
document.addEventListener('copy', async (e) => {
  e.preventDefault();
  try {
    for (const item of e.clipboardData.items) {
      await navigator.clipboard.write([
        new ClipboardItem(Object.defineProperty({}, item.type, {
          value: item,
          enumerable: true
        }))
      ]);
    }
    console.log('Image copied.');
  } catch(e) {
    console.error(e, e.message);
  }
});
```

### Demo

<iframe style="border: solid 1px;" width="100%" height="500"
  src="https://jsfiddle.net/0794oysr/2/embedded/result,js,html,css"
  allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen" frameborder="0">

> </iframe>

Reviewer 2: @robdodson is it OK to embed a JSFiddle?

Side note: it's a very nice demo!

Reviewer: I think we prefer Glitch if possible because you can edit it right on the site.

Reviewer: Btw there are a lot of neat code snippets up above that could also be turned into interactive samples. Don't have to do it in this PR, but might be nice to think about as a future iteration.

Reviewer 2: OK I converted it to Glitch and added the Glitch to our team project or whatever Glitch calls it: https://glitch.com/edit/#!/async-clipboard-api

Please replace the Fiddle with this Glitch, @petele:

```
<div class="glitch-embed-wrap">
  <iframe
    src="https://glitch.com/embed/#!/embed/async-clipboard-api?path=index.html&attributionHidden=true"
    alt="tabindex-zero on Glitch">
  </iframe>
</div>
```

Reviewer: swapped over to kayce's glitch

### Security

Opening up the Asynchronous Clipboard API for images comes with certain
[risks](https://w3c.github.io/clipboard-apis/#security) that need to be
carefully evaluated. One new challenge are so-called
[image compression bombs](https://bomb.codes/bombs#images), that is, image
files that appear to be innocent, but—once decompressed—turn out to be huge.
Even more serious than large images are specifically crafted malicious images
that are designed to exploit known vulnerabilities in the native operating

> system. This is why we can't just copy the image directly to the native

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
system. This is why Chrome can't just copy the image directly to the native
```

Avoiding "we" per Rob's rationale here: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/pull/1614#discussion_r333143069

clipboard, and why in Chrome we require that the image be transcoded.

The [specification](https://w3c.github.io/clipboard-apis/#image-transcode)
therefore also explicitly mentions transcoding as a mitigation method:

> "To prevent malicious image data from being placed on the clipboard, the

> > image data may be transcoded to produce a safe version of the image."

Reviewer 2: @robdodson this blockquote doesn't appear to be styled pretty, do you need to add some site styles?

Reviewer: Yeah I think you have to put it in `<blockquote class="w-blockquote">`.

Which is kinda silly. We should make it so it just styles the blockquote element generically.

Reviewer 2: I created #1650 to remind Rob to do that but he might not get to that soon, so for this one @petele I think the fast path is to just convert to HTML.

Author: Changed.

There is ongoing discussion happening in the
[W3C Technical Architecture Group review](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/350)
on whether, and how the transcoding details should be specified.

## Next Steps

> We are actively working on expanding the Asynchronous Clipboard API to add

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Chrome is actively working on expanding the Asynchronous Clipboard API to add
```
Avoiding "we" per Rob's rationale here: #1614 (comment)

> support a larger number of data types. Due to the potential risks we are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
support a larger number of data types. Due to the potential risks Chrome is
```
Avoiding "we" per Rob's rationale here: #1614 (comment)

treading carefully. To stay up to date on Chrome's progress, you can star the
[bug][cr-bug] to be notified about changes.

For now, image support can be used in Chrome 76 or later.

Happy copying and pasting!

## Related links

* [Explainer](https://github.com/w3c/clipboard-apis/blob/master/explainer.adoc)
* [Raw Clipboard Access Design Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XDOtTv8DtwTi4GaszwRFIJCOuzAEA4g9Tk0HrasQAdE/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Chromium bug](https://crbug.com/150835)
* [Chrome Platform Status entry](https://www.chromestatus.com/features/5074658793619456)
* [Technical Architecture Group (TAG) Review](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/350)

## Acknowledgements

The Asynchronous Clipboard API was implemented by
[Darwin Huang](https://www.linkedin.com/in/darwinhuang/)
and [Gary Kačmarčík](https://www.linkedin.com/in/garykac/).
Darwin also provided the [demo](https://jsfiddle.net/0794oysr/2/).
My introduction of this article is inspired by
[Jason Miller](https://twitter.com/_developit?lang=en)'s

> original [text](/web/updates/2018/03/clipboardapi).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
original [text](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/03/clipboardapi).
```

Thanks to [Kyarik](https://github.com/kyarik) and again Gary Kačmarčík for
reviewing this article.

> ## Feedback {: #feedback .hide-from-toc }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Looks like some old webfu markdown got copied over
